**Pick a Game or Interactive Fiction**       
English 506 | CSPT 500/600 at UVic    
lək̓ʷəŋən and W̱SÁNEĆ Territories      
Taught by Jentery Sayers (he / him)  

Here's a list of about 150 games and interactive fictions I suggest for your player stories this term. I also published it as [a GG list](https://ggapp.io/sfam/lists/playlist-6ag87zsj) if you prefer navigating by cover art instead of text. (Note that some works of interactive fiction do not appear in GG, thus the GG list is shorter than this one.) 

Links usually point to either the [GG app](https://ggapp.io/) or [IFDB](https://ifdb.org/).

The list is biased: aside from relying on material with which I'm relatively familiar, it leans toward games with narrative elements. You won't find many puzzle or sports games, for example. 

When I recommend a series of games (such as *The Legend of Zelda* or *Metal Gear Solid*), I list only one game in that series and then include a remark such as "any of them." I don't expect you to cover an entire series in a single term; however, newer games in a series will likely refer in some way to the ones preceding them. There's also the matter of lore.  

If you'd like content warnings or "emotional spoilers" for a certain work, then try [Does the Dog Die?](https://www.doesthedogdie.com/)

I'm open to suggestions if none of what's below interests you or you came to the seminar with a particular game or interactive fiction in mind. It just needs to be something I've played and studied a bit. Thanks for meeting me halfway. 

And, of course, don't hesitate to ask if you'd like me to narrow the list based on your interests, a type of game or play, your technology needs, or the like. 

* [*AI Dungeon*](https://ggapp.io/games/O2lIO1/ai-dungeon-2): "Imagine an infinitely generated world that you could explore endlessly, continually finding entirely new content and adventures. What if you could also choose any action you can think of instead of being limited by the imagination of the developers who created the game? Unlike virtually every other game in existence, you are not limited by the imagination of the developer in what you can do. Any thing you can express in language can be your action and the AI dungeon master will decide how the world responds to your actions." 
* [*Alien: Isolation*](https://ggapp.io/games/2Zs8Ph/alien-isolation): "Discover the true meaning of fear in *Alien: Isolation*, a survival horror set in an atmosphere of constant dread and mortal danger."
* [*Amnesia*](https://ggapp.io/games/xoaG0S/amnesia-the-dark-descent) (any of them): "*Amnesia: The Dark Descent* is a survival horror video game by Frictional Games. The game features a protagonist named Daniel exploring a dark and foreboding castle, while trying to maintain his sanity by avoiding monsters and other terrifying obstructions. The game was critically well received."
* [*Analogue: A Hate Story*](https://ggapp.io/games/xCpTsj/analogue-a-hate-story): "A dark visual mystery novel featuring transhumanism, traditional marriage, loneliness, and cosplay. Two pursuable characters. Five endings. Welcome to the future."
* [*Animal Crossing*](https://ggapp.io/games/eZZghd/animal-crossing-new-horizons) (any of them): "Escape to a deserted island and create your own paradise as you explore, create, and customize in the *Animal Crossing: New Horizons* game. Your island getaway has a wealth of natural resources that can be used to craft everything from tools to creature comforts. You can hunt down insects at the crack of dawn, decorate your paradise throughout the day, or enjoy sunset on the beach while fishing in the ocean. The time of day and season match real life, so each day on your island is a chance to check in and find new surprises all year round."
* [*Animalia*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=vp5xvfqvycyz2q3r): "This is the story of Charlie Stewart, nine-year-old Human child. Inside this ordinary nine-year-old Human child are four animals from the Forest, working tirelessly to keep YOUR Taiga Federation safe from Human intervention. *Animalia* is a wacky interactive fiction game. It finished 3rd in the 2018 Interactive Fiction Competition, and won two 2018 XYZZY Awards for Best Writing and Best NPCs." 
* [*Assassin's Creed*](https://ggapp.io/games/K6EjXe/assassins-creed-freedom-cry) (any of them): "Born a slave, Adewale found freedom as a pirate aboard Edward Kenway’s ship, the Jackdaw. 15 years later, Adewale has become a trained Assassin who finds himself shipwrecked in Saint-Domingue without weapons or crew. He now has to acquire a ship and gather his own crew to free the slaves and avenge them. Over 3 hours of new single-player gameplay!"
* [*Baldur's Gate*](https://ggapp.io/games/JBodZb/baldurs-gate) (any of them): "*Baldur's Gate* is a fantasy role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published in 1998 by Interplay Entertainment. It is the first game in the *Baldur's Gate* series and takes place in the Forgotten Realms, a high fantasy campaign setting, using a modified version of the Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (AD&D) 2nd edition rules. It was the first game to use the Infinity Engine for its graphics, with Interplay using the engine for other Forgotten Realms-licensed games, including the *Icewind Dale* series, as well as other licensed D&D campaign worlds such as *Planescape: Torment*. The game's story focuses on players controlling a protagonist of their own creation who finds themselves travelling across the Sword Coast alongside a party of companions, to unravel the mystery surrounding a sudden iron crisis affecting the region and attempting to discover the culprits behind it, all while uncovering dark secrets about their origins and dealing with attempts on their life."
* [*BioShock*](https://ggapp.io/games/NA71KO/bioshock) (any of them): "*BioShock* is a shooter unlike any you've ever played, loaded with weapons and tactics never seen. You'll have a complete arsenal at your disposal from simple revolvers to grenade launchers and chemical throwers, but you'll also be forced to genetically modify your DNA to create an even more deadly weapon: you."
* [*Birdland*](https://ggapp.io/games/vOgscV/birdland): "A game written by Brendan Patrick Hennessy for the 21st Annual Interactive Fiction Competition."
* [*Blaseball*](https://ggapp.io/games/cSDdzT/blaseball): "An absurdist, player-driven, online almost-baseball league where community members bet and spend a virtual currency to make changes to teams, players, rosters, and even the rules of the game across simulated seasons." 
* [*Bloodborne*](https://ggapp.io/games/sIfyjl/bloodborne): "An action RPG in which the player embodies a Hunter who, after being transfused with the mysterious blood local to the city of Yharnam, sets off into a 'night of the Hunt,' an extended night in which Hunters may phase in and out of dream and reality in order to thin the outbreak of abominable beasts that plague the land and, for the more resilient and insightful Hunters, uncover the answers to the Hunt's many mysteries."
* [*Bogeyman*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=ltwvgb2lubkx82yi): "*Bogeyman* is a choice-based horror game about what happens to naughty children after the title character takes them away. It won 2nd place out of 77 entries in the 24th Annual Interactive Fiction Competition, making it the first Twine game to place that high. It also won several XYZZY awards, including Best Game."
* [*Braid*](https://ggapp.io/games/IzeHO4/braid): "*Braid* is a puzzle-platformer, drawn in a painterly style, where you can manipulate the flow of time in strange and unusual ways. From a house in the city, journey to a series of worlds and solve puzzles to rescue an abducted princess."
* [*Butterfly Soup*](https://ggapp.io/games/nFAxA5/butterfly-soup): "The game is set in 2008 and follows four young, queer Asian-American girls as they attend their first year of high school and bond as members of a baseball club. The narrative focuses on the relationship between two of them, Diya and Min-seo. It addresses topics such as child abuse and homophobia."
* [*Castlevania*](https://ggapp.io/games/BXOYr6/castlevania) (any of them): "Step into the shadows of the deadliest dwelling on earth. You've arrived at Castlevania, and you're here on business: To destroy forever the Curse of the Evil Count. Unfortunately, everybody's home this evening. Bats, ghosts, every kind of creature you can imagine. You'll find 'em all over the place, if they don't find you first. Because you've got to get through six monstrous floors before you even meet up with the Master of the House. Your Magic Whip will help, and you'll probably find a weapons or two along the way. But once you make it to the tower, you can count on a Duel to the Death. The Count has waited 100 years for a rematch."
* [*The Cat and the Coup*](https://ggapp.io/games/PnNp6E/the-cat-and-the-coup): "*The Cat and the Coup* is a documentary game in which you play the cat of Dr. Mohammed Mossadegh, the first democratically elected Prime Minister of Iran. During the summer of 1953, the CIA engineered a coup to bring about his downfall. As a player, you coax Mossadegh back through significant events of his life by knocking objects off of shelves, scattering his papers, jumping on his lap and scratching him."
* [*Cave Story*](https://ggapp.io/games/LOlGu9/cave-story): "*Cave Story* was created over five years by Japanese developer Daisuke 'Pixel' Amaya, and released as freeware in 2004. *Cave Story* features a completely original storyline wrapped with personality, mystery and hours of fast-paced fun. It is an action-adventure game from the critically acclaimed independent designer, Daisuke Amaya--or Pixel to his fans. Overflowing with unmatched charm and character, it takes you into a rare world where a curious race of innocent rabbit-like creatures, called Mimigas, run free. You wake up in a dark cave with no memory of who you are, where you came from or why you're in such a place. Uncovering Mimiga Village you discover that the once-carefree Mimigas are in danger at the hands of a maniacal scientist. The Mimigas’ only hope rest squarely on the shoulders of a quiet, amnesiac boy who can't remember his own name. Run, jump, shoot, fly and explore your way through a massive action-adventure reminiscent of classic 8- and 16-bit games. Take control and learn the origins of this world’s power, stop the delusional villain and save the Mimiga!"
* [*Celeste*](https://ggapp.io/games/t7lius/celeste) (PICO version is fine): "Help Madeline survive her inner demons on her journey to the top of Celeste Mountain, in this super-tight platformer from the creators of *TowerFall*. Brave hundreds of hand-crafted challenges, uncover devious secrets, and piece together the mystery of the mountain."
* [*Chicory: A Colorful Tale*](https://ggapp.io/games/dLLjPL/chicory-a-colorful-tale): "*Chicory: A Colorful Tale* is an adventure game about a dog wielding a magic paintbrush! Use the power of art to explore, solve puzzles, help your animal friends and restore color to the world. The Brush is a one-of-a-kind artifact that can color the world. Naturally, it needs a wielder, a master artist responsible for all colors and for passing the brush down. The current wielder, Chicory, is immensely talented and beloved by all... until all the color in the land vanishes, and her with it! I guess that leaves it up to you, her number one fan, to take up the brush and fill in for her. Hmm... good luck!"
* [*Chrono Trigger*](https://ggapp.io/games/BwGfui/chrono-trigger): "The timeless RPG classic returns loaded with upgrades! Journey to the forgotten past, to the far future, and to the end of time."
* [*Citizen Sleeper*](https://ggapp.io/games/OqRqDC/citizen-sleeper): "This first thing you become aware of upon waking is the disconnect. The delay between thinking and feeling. Between wanting to act and acting. Minor, almost imperceptible, but always present."
* [*Sid Meier's Civilization*](https://ggapp.io/games/0OXg9G/sid-meiers-civilization) (any of them): "*Sid Meier's Civilization* is a turn-based strategy computer game created by Sid Meier for MicroProse in 1991. The game's objective is 'to build an empire that would stand the test of time.' The game begins in 4000 BC, and the players attempt to expand and develop their empires through the ages until modern and near-future times. It is also known simply as *Civilization*."
* [*Coffee Talk*](https://ggapp.io/games/I5KQJM/coffee-talk): "*Coffee Talk* is a coffee brewing and heart-to-heart talking simulator about listening to fantasy-inspired modern peoples’ problems, and helping them by serving up a warm drink or two."
* [*Colossal Cave Adventure*](https://ggapp.io/games/0PoLe2/colossal-cave-adventure): "*Colossal Cave Adventure* (also known as *ADVENT, Colossal Cave*, or *Adventure*) is a text adventure game, developed originally in 1976, by Will Crowther for the PDP-10 mainframe. The game was expanded upon in 1977, with help from Don Woods, and other programmers created variations on the game and ports to other systems in the following years. In the game, the player controls a character through simple text commands to explore a cave rumored to be filled with wealth. Players earn predetermined points for acquiring treasure and escaping the cave alive, with the goal to earn the maximum amount of points offered. The concept bore out from Crowther's background as a caving enthusiast, with the game's cave structured loosely around the Mammoth Cave system in Kentucky. *Colossal Cave Adventure* is the first known work of interactive fiction and, as the first text adventure game, is considered the precursor for the adventure game genre. It also contributed to the role playing and roguelike genres."
* [*Control*](https://ggapp.io/games/d7oX6x/control): "Winner of over 80 awards, *Control* is a visually stunning third-person action-adventure that will keep you on the edge of your seat."
* [*Counterfeit Monkey*](https://ggapp.io/games/BtsOPQ/counterfeit-monkey): "Anglophone Atlantis has been an independent nation since an April day in 1822, when a well-aimed shot from their depluralizing cannon reduced the British colonizing fleet to one ship. Since then, Atlantis has been the world's greatest center for linguistic manipulation, designing letter inserters, word synthesizers, the diminutive affixer, and a host of other tools for converting one thing to another. Inventors worldwide pay heavily for that technology, which is where a smuggler and industrial espionage agent such as yourself can really clean up. Unfortunately, the Bureau of Orthography has taken a serious interest in your activities lately. Your face has been recorded and your cover is blown. Your remaining assets: about eight more hours of a national holiday that's spreading the police thin; the most inconvenient damn disguise you've ever worn in your life; and one full-alphabet letter remover. Good luck getting off the island."
* [*Creatures Such As We*](https://ggapp.io/games/MpM0vB/creatures-such-as-we): "A dating sim about how humanity connects through art, even out in the vastness of space."
* [*Crème de la Crème*](https://ggapp.io/games/8Qvm12/creme-de-la-creme): "Climb to the very top of the class at your exclusive private school for socialites! Will you study hard, find a perfect match, or embrace scandal?"
* [*Cuphead*](https://ggapp.io/games/MZu2o7/cuphead): "*Cuphead* is a classic run and gun action game heavily focused on boss battles. Inspired by cartoons of the 1930s, the visuals and audio are painstakingly created with the same techniques of the era, i.e. traditional hand drawn cel animation, watercolor backgrounds, and original jazz recordings."
* [*Dark Souls*](https://ggapp.io/games/8mVt4z/dark-souls-remastered) (any of them): "An action RPG and spiritual sequel to *Demon's Souls* (2009) in which the player embodies the Chosen Undead, who is tasked with fulfilling an ancient prophecy by ringing the Bells of Awakening in the dark fantasy setting of Lordran, an open world with intricate areas full of beasts, former humans gone hollow, and magical abominations whom the player must overcome in challenging and unforgiving combat."
* [*Dear Esther*](https://ggapp.io/games/jjIxli/dear-esther): "*Dear Esther* is a ghost story, told using first-person gaming technologies. Rather than traditional game-play the focus here is on exploration, uncovering the mystery of the island, of who you are and why you are here. Fragments of story are randomly uncovered when exploring the various locations of the island, making every each journey a unique experience."
* [*Death Stranding*](https://ggapp.io/games/9XbvEe/death-stranding): "From legendary game creator Hideo Kojima comes an all-new, genre-defying experience. Sam Bridges must brave a world utterly transformed by the Death Stranding. Carrying the disconnected remnants of our future in his hands, he embarks on a journey to reconnect the shattered world one step at a time."
* [*Depression Quest*](https://ggapp.io/games/0z9FBR/depression-quest): "*Depression Quest* is an interactive fiction game where you play as someone living with depression. You are given a series of everyday life events and have to attempt to manage your illness, relationships, job, and possible treatment."
* [*Detention*](https://ggapp.io/games/AuNW7a/detention): "*Detention* is an atmospheric horror game set in 1960s Taiwan under martial law. Incorporated religious elements based in Taiwanese/Chinese culture and mythology, the game provided players with unique graphics and gaming experience."
* [*Device 6*](https://ggapp.io/games/Xh715P/device-6): "*Device 6* plays with the conventions of games and literature, entwines story with geography and blends puzzle and novella, to draw players into an intriguing mystery of technology and neuroscience."
* [*Disco Elysium*](https://ggapp.io/games/o84KGk/disco-elysium-the-final-cut): "*Disco Elysium - The Final Cut* is a groundbreaking role playing game. You’re a detective with a unique skill system at your disposal and a whole city to carve your path across. Interrogate unforgettable characters, crack murders or take bribes. Become a hero or an absolute disaster of a human being."
* [*Dishonored*](https://ggapp.io/games/vcnb7t/dishonored-definitive-edition) (any of them): "*Dishonored* is an immersive first-person action game that casts you as a supernatural assassin driven by revenge. With *Dishonored*’s flexible combat system, creatively eliminate your targets as you combine the supernatural abilities, weapons and unusual gadgets at your disposal."
* [*Divinity: Original Sin 2*](https://ggapp.io/games/xsZ3pg/divinity-original-sin-ii-definitive-edition): "There can only be one God. The Divine is dead. The Void approaches. And the powers lying dormant within you are soon to awaken. The battle for Divinity has begun. Choose wisely and trust sparingly; darkness lurks within every heart. Master deep, tactical combat. Join up to 3 other players - but know that only one of you will have the chance to become a God, in multi-award winning RPG *Divinity: Original Sin 2*."
* [*Dominique Pamplemousse*](https://ggapp.io/games/J6oOmK/dominique-pamplemousse): "*Dominique Pamplemousse* in 'It’s All Over Once The Fat Lady Sings!'' is a unique and offbeat stop motion animated detective adventure game about gender and the economy. Also, all the characters frequently burst into song."
* [*DOOM*](https://ggapp.io/games/tTNzek/doom): "A far-off moonbase sets the stage as you, the only remaining marine, battle demons, mutant humans, and horrors from the bowels of the universe, to save yourself and the world. Bullet proof armor, night vision goggles and radiation suits are our protection against a monster infested holocaust that's been set upon the universe. You must travel through bubbling lava, rush under crushing ceilings, be lowered into dark passages, and more, to find and destroy the enemy that threatens to destroy you!" 
* [*Dream Daddy: A Dad Dating Simulator*](https://ggapp.io/games/2ekfwA/dream-daddy-a-dad-dating-simulator): "*Dream Daddy: A Dad Dating Simulator* is a game where you play as a Dad and your goal is to meet and romance other hot Dads. Are you ready? Hi ready, I'm Dad."
* [*Dys4ia*](https://ggapp.io/games/XupMBx/dys4ia): "*Dys4ia* is an abstract, autobiographical Adobe Flash video game that Anna Anthropy, also known as Auntie Pixelante, developed to recount her experiences of gender dysphoria and hormone replacement therapy."
* [*Earthbound*](https://ggapp.io/games/uUNBqm/earthbound): "Join Ness, Paula, Jeff, and Poo in a sci-fi turn-based JRPG adventure as they fight a mysterious alien force named Giygas in a quirky land based off of the real world. *EarthBound* (known as *MOTHER2* in Japan) is a distant sequel to the original *EarthBound Beginnings*, with many characters, themes, and tunes borrowed from its predecessor. Many of the characters and settings are very similar, but the only explicitly returning character is Giygas, who swears revenge at the end of the first game."
* [*80 Days*](https://ggapp.io/games/Qckr7x/80-days): "1872, with a steampunk twist. Phileas Fogg has wagered he can circumnavigate the world in just 80 days. Travel by airship, submarine, mechanical camel, steam-train and more. Race other players and a clock that never stops in TIME Magazine's Game of 2014."
* [*Elden Ring*](https://ggapp.io/games/jdMK8h/elden-ring): "*Elden Ring* is an action-rpg developed by FromSoftware and published by Bandai Namco. The game's mythos was written by George R. R. Martin, of *Song of Ice and Fire / Game of Thrones* fame. Elden Ring will be a Norse or Celtic themed open world game, following the style of FromSoftware's previous *Dark Souls* titles, and providing RPG elements such as stats, weapons and spells."
* [*Electronic Literature Collection*](https://collection.eliterature.org/), Volumes 1-4 (any work in that collection)
* [*Eliza*](https://ggapp.io/games/2rSEi0/eliza): "*Eliza* is a visual novel about an AI counseling program, the people who develop it, and the people who use it. Follow Evelyn Ishino-Aubrey as she reconnects with people from her past, gets to know the people of Seattle who use Eliza for counseling, and decides the course of her future."
* [*EverQuest*](https://ggapp.io/games/IrIBpG/everquest) (any of them): "*EverQuest* is a 3D fantasy-themed massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) released on March 16, 1999. Players move their character throughout the medieval fantasy world of Norrath, often fighting monsters and enemies for treasure and experience points, and optionally mastering trade skills. As they progress, players advance in level, gaining power, prestige, spells, and abilities through valorous deeds such as entering overrun castles and keeps, defeating worthy opponents found within, and looting their remains. Experience and prestigious equipment can also be obtained by completing quests given out by non-player characters found throughout the land. EverQuest allows players to interact with other people through role-play, joining player guilds, and dueling other players." 
* [*Fallout*](https://ggapp.io/games/BY5Hnj/fallout) (any of them): "The Vault Dweller is tasked with exploring post-nuclear California in order to retrieve a water chip to replace the broken chip of Vault 13, their home, which they are the first person to ever leave. The player will engage in Western RPG character building and turn-based tactical combat while getting to know settlements and factions of people, mutants and ghouls through branching dialogue trees."
* [*Final Fantasy*](https://ggapp.io/games/f3aVU8/final-fantasy) (any of them): "Dragons and broadswords, mystery and adventure. *Final Fantasy* has them all! An evil shroud covers the world in darkness. You must restore the powers of earth, wind, fire, and water to the Four Orbs. Create your own band of 4 Light Warriors from fighters, thieves, martial artists, and magicians. You'll need all their skills to triumph in this massive role-playing adventure. Your treacherous journey takes you to all parts of a strange new world. Explore dangerous castles and dark caverns where deadly perils, and great rewards await at every turn. Hundreds of ferocious monsters block your path. With patience, skill, and cunning you can defeat them. Come, begin your quest. Enter an enchanted new World. Command your Warriors! Prepare to face the Final Fantasy!"
* [*Fire Emblem: Three Houses*](https://ggapp.io/games/K6lDr7/fire-emblem-three-houses): "Here, order is maintained by the Church of Seiros, which hosts the prestigious Officer’s Academy within its headquarters. You are invited to teach one of its three mighty houses, each comprised of students brimming with personality and represented by a royal from one of three territories. As their professor, you must lead your students in their academic lives and in turn-based, tactical RPG battles wrought with strategic, new twists to overcome. Which house, and which path, will you choose?"
* [*Firewatch*](https://ggapp.io/games/TxaHAY/firewatch): "*Firewatch* is a mystery set in the woods of Wyoming, where your only emotional lifeline is the person on the other end of a handheld radio. You play as a man named Henry who has retreated from his messy life to work as a fire lookout in the wilderness. Perched high atop a mountain, it’s your job to look for smoke and keep the wilderness safe. An especially hot and dry summer has everyone on edge. Your supervisor, a woman named Delilah, is available to you at all times over a small, handheld radio -- and is your only contact with the world you’ve left behind. But when something strange draws you out of your lookout tower and into the world, you’ll explore a wild and unknown environment, facing questions and making interpersonal choices that can build or destroy the only meaningful relationship you have." 
* [*Florence*](https://ggapp.io/games/rMSkwG/florence): "*Florence* is an interactive storybook from the award-winning lead designer of *Monument Valley* about the heart-racing highs and heartbreaking lows of a young woman's very first love. Experience every beat of Florence and Krish's relationship through a series of mini-game vignettes - from flirting to fighting, from helping each other grow... to growing apart. Drawing inspiration from 'slice of life' graphic novels and webcomics, *Florence* is an intimate and unforgettable story."
* [*Frankenstein*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=q9n56sd2s8fkowf): "Dave Morris' *Frankenstein* is an interactive novel that places you right inside the story, acting as Frankenstein's confidant, guide and conscience. Following and adapting Mary Shelley's original text, *Frankenstein* is a new reading experience designed from the ground up for mobile devices and written using our inklewriter platform."
* [*FTL: Faster than Light*](https://ggapp.io/games/vcwiwP/ftl-faster-than-light): "This 'spaceship simulation roguelike-like' allows you to take your ship and crew on an adventure through a randomly generated galaxy filled with glory and bitter defeat."
* [*Galatea*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=urxrv27t7qtu52lb): "*Galatea* is my first released foray into interactive fiction. It is a single conversation with a single character, which can end any of a number of ways depending on the player's decisions. Despite its age, I continue to get strong reactions to it in my email inbox on a fairly regular basis. Some people love it; some people find it annoying or distressing." (Emily Short)
* [*Gone Home*](https://ggapp.io/games/YNVq7o/gone-home): "June 7th, 1995. 1:15 AM. You arrive home after a year abroad. You expect your family to greet you, but the house is empty. Something's not right. Where is everyone? And what's happened here? Unravel the mystery for yourself in *Gone Home*, a story exploration game from The Fullbright Company."
* [*Griftlands*](https://ggapp.io/games/7LnAuU/griftlands): "*Griftlands* is a deck-building roguelite where you negotiate, fight, steal or otherwise persuade others to get your way. Every decision is important, be it the jobs you take, the friends you make, or the cards you collect."
* [*Grim Fandango*](https://ggapp.io/games/Xds6sE/grim-fandango-remastered): "A neo-noir adventure to the Land of the Dead. Something's rotten in the land of the dead, and you're being played for a sucker. Meet Manny Calavera, travel agent at the Department of Death. He sells luxury packages to souls on their four-year journey to eternal rest. But there's trouble in paradise. Help Manny untangle himself from a conspiracy that threatens his very salvation."
* [*Gris*](https://ggapp.io/games/UpNYWP/gris): "Gris is a hopeful young girl lost in her own world, dealing with a painful experience in her life. Her journey through sorrow is manifested in her dress, which grants new abilities to better navigate her faded reality. As the story unfolds, Gris will grow emotionally and see her world in a different way, revealing new paths to explore using her new abilities. *Gris* is a serene and evocative experience, free of danger, frustration or death. Players will explore a meticulously designed world brought to life with delicate art, detailed animation, and an elegant original score. Through the game light puzzles, platforming sequences, and optional skill-based challenges will reveal themselves as more of Gris’s world becomes accessible." 
* [*Hades*](https://ggapp.io/games/ZvHR7z/hades): "Defy the god of the dead as you hack and slash out of the Underworld in this rogue-like dungeon crawler from the creators of *Bastion, Transistor*, and *Pyre*." 
* [*Hair Nah*](https://hairnah.com/): "a new travel game about a black woman tired of people touching her hair"
* [*Half-Life*](https://ggapp.io/games/0aSx0P/half-life) (any of them): "Dr. Gordon Freeman doesn't speak, but he's got a helluva story to tell. This first-person roller-coaster initiated a new era in the history of action games by combining engrossing gameplay, upgraded graphics, ingenious level design and a revolutionary story that may not be all that it seems, told not through cutscenes, but through the visual environment."
* [*Her Story*](https://ggapp.io/games/SgW26S/her-story): "A woman is interviewed seven times by the police. Search the video database and explore hundreds of authentic clips to discover her story in this groundbreaking and award winning narrative game."
* [*Hollow Knight*](https://ggapp.io/games/4h8c07/hollow-knight): "Forge your own path in *Hollow Knight*! An epic action adventure through a vast ruined kingdom of insects and heroes. Explore twisting caverns, battle tainted creatures and befriend bizarre bugs, all in a classic, hand-drawn 2D style. It all comes with a good amount of difficulty."
* [*Horace*](https://ggapp.io/games/h7SNnr/horace): "*Horace* is a story-driven, pixel-platform adventure peppered with nostalgic, popular culture references which will bring a smile to any gamer who enjoys the 8 and 16 bit era!"
* [*The House in Fata Morgana*](https://ggapp.io/games/YEK36Q/the-house-in-fata-morgana): "A gothic suspense tale set in a cursed mansion. *The House in Fata Morgana* is a full-length visual novel spanning nearly a millennium that deals in tragedy, human nature, and insanity."
* [*Howling Dogs*](https://ggapp.io/games/qgYWzo/howling-dogs): "*Howling Dogs* is an interactive fiction made in TWINE by Porpentine. Trapped in a small area with limited supplies, the player can temporarily visit other worlds through some sort of virtual reality visor." 
* [*Hyper Light Drifter*](https://ggapp.io/games/ivdYjC/hyper-light-drifter): "Explore a beautiful, vast and ruined world riddled with dangers and lost technologies."
* [*Inscryption*](https://ggapp.io/games/W6tbON/inscryption): "*Inscryption* is an inky black card-based odyssey that blends the deckbuilding roguelike, escape-room style puzzles, and psychological horror into a blood-laced smoothie. Darker still are the secrets inscrybed upon the cards..."
* [*INSIDE*](https://ggapp.io/games/HQ0tlL/inside): "Hunted and alone, a boy finds himself drawn into the center of a dark project. *INSIDE* is a dark, narrative-driven platformer combining intense action with challenging puzzles. It has been critically acclaimed for its moody art style, ambient soundtrack and unsettling atmosphere."
* [*Journey*](https://ggapp.io/games/c4gn9W/journey): "In *Journey* the player controls a robed figure in a vast desert, traveling towards a mountain in the distance. Other players on the same journey can be discovered, and two players can meet and assist each other, but they cannot communicate via speech or text and cannot see each other's names. The only form of communication between the two is a musical chime. This chime also transforms dull, stiff pieces of cloth found throughout the levels into vibrant red, affecting the game world and allowing the player to progress through the levels. The robed figure wears a trailing scarf, which when charged by approaching floating pieces of cloth, briefly allows the player to float through the air. The developers sought to evoke in the player a sense of smallness and wonder, and to forge an emotional connection between them and the anonymous players they meet along the way. The music, composed by Austin Wintory, dynamically responds to the player's actions, building a single theme to represent the game's emotional arc throughout the story. Reviewers of the game praised the visual and auditory art as well as the sense of companionship created by playing with a stranger, calling it a moving and emotional experience. *Journey* won several 'game of the year' awards and received several other awards and nominations, including a Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media nomination for the 2013 Grammy Awards."
* [*Katamari Damacy*](https://ggapp.io/games/y5oafi/katamari-damacy): "The King of All Cosmos accidentally destroyed the stars and—having recovered—wants the prince to rebuild them. Unfortunately the prince stands a little less than half a foot tall, so recreating the stars will require some effort. Enter the Katamari, a sphere the prince can push around our world to 'roll up' items increasing the Katamari’s size until it’s suitable for the King. Taking place in stylized versions of Japanese houses, cities, and environs, the prince pushes the Katamari around collecting items which adhere to it. At first, the prince can only pick up smaller items, but as the Katamari grows, the more it can collect. Push pins and paper clips cling to the Katamari increasing its size so it can roll over obstacles and pick up bigger items. Over many levels, the Katamari can eventually pick up people, cars, and other bigger items. Players steer the Katamari from a third-person perspective using analog sticks. A tutorial stage takes the player through the controls and sets up the story as well as introducing a side story about a Japanese girl who can feel the cosmos. Wanting to challenge the prince, the King sets requirements on the Katamari’s size and sets time limits on the level. Bonus missions restore constellations and have their own restrictions. The world of Katamari Damacy is brought to life with off-beat animation and a catchy soundtrack. Players can find presents hidden in the levels that contain accessories for the prince. Two players can also battle head-to-head in a Katamari competition."
* [*Kentucky Route Zero*](https://ggapp.io/games/pfycrv/kentucky-route-zero-tv-edition): "*Kentucky Route Zero* is a magical realist adventure game about a secret highway in the caves beneath Kentucky, and the mysterious folks who travel it. Gameplay is inspired by point-and-click adventure games (like the classic *Monkey Island* or *King's Quest* series, or more recently Telltale's *Walking Dead* series), but focused on characterization, atmosphere and storytelling rather than clever puzzles or challenges of skill. The game is developed by Cardboard Computer (Jake Elliott, Tamas Kemenczy, and Ben Babbitt), and features an original electronic score by Ben Babbitt along with a suite of old hymns and bluegrass standards recorded by The Bedquilt Ramblers." 
* [*Last of Us*](https://ggapp.io/games/WwTJB0/the-last-of-us) (either of them): "A third person shooter/stealth/survival hybrid, in which twenty years after the outbreak of a parasitic fungus which takes over the neural functions of humans, Joel, a Texan with a tragic familial past, finds himself responsible with smuggling a fourteen year old girl named Ellie to a militia group called the Fireflies, while avoiding strict and deadly authorities, infected fungal hosts and other violent survivors."
* [*The Legend of Zelda*](https://ggapp.io/games/dvMoBw/the-legend-of-zelda) (any of them): "Set in the fantasy land of Hyrule, the plot centers on a boy named Link, the playable protagonist, who aims to collect the eight fragments of the Triforce of Wisdom in order to rescue Princess Zelda from the antagonist, Ganon. During the course of the game, the player sees Link from a top-down perspective and must navigate him through the overworld and several dungeons, defeating enemies and finding secrets along the way."
* [*Life Is Strange*](https://ggapp.io/games/vaGAkv/life-is-strange) (any of them): "*Life is Strange* is an award-winning and critically acclaimed episodic adventure game that allows the player to rewind time and affect the past, present and future."
* [*Limbo*](https://ggapp.io/games/XHTwwC/limbo): "Uncertain of his sister's fate, a boy enters LIMBO. *Limbo* is a puzzle-platform video game developed by independent studio Playdead."
* [*Lost Pig*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=mohwfk47yjzii14w): "Pig lost! Boss say that it Grunk fault. Say Grunk forget about closing gate. Maybe boss right. Grunk not remember forgetting, but maybe Grunk just forget. Boss say Grunk go find pig, bring it back. Him say, if Grunk not bring back pig, not bring back Grunk either. Grunk like working at pig farm, so now Grunk need find pig."
* [*Mainichi*](http://www.mattiebrice.com/mainichi/): "This is an experiment in sharing a personal experience through a game system. It helps communicate daily occurances that happen in my life, exploring the difficulty in expressing these feelings in words. As well, it stands as a commentary of how we currently use game design for broad strokes of universal experiences instead of the hyper-personal, and often exclude minority voices. Mainichi was made in RPG Maker VX, an under-served program in terms of accessibility. My goal was to make a game on my own that didn’t require programming and used community resources. I want to make games that feasibly anyone can do on their own. The only special skill I needed for this project was simple graphic editing." (Mattie Brice)
* [*Marvel's Guardians Of The Galaxy*](https://ggapp.io/games/LlYFmU/marvels-guardians-of-the-galaxy): "Fire up a wild ride across the cosmos with a fresh take on Marvel’s *Guardians of the Galaxy*. In this third-person action-adventure game, you are Star-Lord, and thanks to your bold yet questionable leadership, you have persuaded an oddball crew of unlikely heroes to join you. Some jerk (surely not you) has set off a chain of catastrophic events, and only you can hold the unpredictable Guardians together long enough to fight off total interplanetary meltdown. Use Element Blasters, tag-team beat downs, jet boot-powered dropkicks, nothing’s off-limits."
* [*Mass Effect*](https://ggapp.io/games/fc9G6Q/mass-effect) (any of them): "What starts as a routine mission to an agrarian outpost quickly becomes the opening salvo in an epic war. As the newly appointed Executive Officer of the SSV Normandy, you'll assemble and lead an elite squad of heroes into battle after heart-pounding battle. Each decision you make will impact not only your fate, but the destiny of the entire galaxy in the *Mass Effect* trilogy. Key Features: Incredible, interactive storytelling. Create and customize your own character, from Commander Shepard's appearance and skills to a personalized arsenal. Unleash devastating abilities as you command and train. Your decisions will control the outcome of each mission, your relationships with your crew and ultimately the entire war. An amazing universe to explore. From the massive Citadel to the harsh, radioactive landscape of the Krogan home world – the incredible breadth of the *Mass Effect* universe will blow you away. Travel to the farthest outposts aboard the SSV Normandy, the most technologically advanced ship in the galaxy. You'll follow the clues left by ancient civilizations, discover hidden bases with fantastic new tech and lead your hand-picked crew into explosive alien battles. Edge-of-your-seat excitement meets strategic combat. Find the perfect combination of squad-mates and weapons for each battle if you want to lead them to victory. Sun-Tzu's advice remains as pertinent in 2183 as it is today – know your enemy. You'll need different tactics for a squad of enemies with devastating biotic attacks than a heavily armored Geth Colossus so choose your teams wisely."
* [*Metal Gear Solid*](https://ggapp.io/games/3OvtWg/metal-gear-solid) (any of them): "A third-person story-heavy stealth action title which follows Solid Snake, a special operations soldier, who infiltrates a nuclear weapons facility by the name of Shadow Moses Island to neutralize a renegade special forces unit named FOXHOUND. Throughout his journey, he uncovers various lies and military conspiracies, and his ideas of trust, violence and control are challenged."
* [*Metroid*](https://ggapp.io/games/lFXSkX/metroid) (any of them): "It's you against the evil Mother Brain in the thrilling battle of *Metroid*! You're inside the fortress planet Zebes. The planet of endless secret passageways where the Metroid are multiplying. Left alone the Metroid are harmless. But in the wrong hands they could destroy the galaxy. It's up to you to prevent the Mother Brain that controls Zebes from using the Metroid for evil purposes. But that won't be easy. You'll have to use your spacesuit to absorb valuable energy for your search to gain the use of power items like the Ice Beam, Wave Beam, High Jump Boots and Varia. If you survive, it will be you and your acquired powers against the Mother Brain."
* [*Minecraft*](https://ggapp.io/games/X9HrTD/minecraft-java-edition): "*Minecraft* focuses on allowing the player to explore, interact with, and modify a dynamically-generated map made of one-cubic-meter-sized blocks. In addition to blocks, the environment features plants, mobs, and items. Some activities in the game include mining for ore, fighting hostile mobs, and crafting new blocks and tools by gathering various resources found in the game. The game's open-ended model allows players to create structures, creations, and artwork on various multiplayer servers or their single-player maps. Other features include redstone circuits for logic computations and remote actions, minecarts and tracks, and a mysterious underworld called the Nether. A designated but completely optional goal of the game is to travel to a dimension called the End, and defeat the ender dragon."
* [*Monkey Island*](https://ggapp.io/games/r1fLTR/the-secret-of-monkey-island-special-edition) (any of them): "The games follow the misadventures of the hapless Guybrush Threepwood as he struggles to become the most notorious pirate in the Caribbean, defeat the plans of the evil undead pirate LeChuck and win the heart of Governor Elaine Marley. Each game's plot usually involves the mysterious Monkey Island and its impenetrable secrets."
* [*Monster Hunter*](https://ggapp.io/games/CgRkzm/monster-hunter) (any of them): "*Monster Hunter* is a hack and slash, strategy, adventure game released September 21st 2004 in North America. The game is a simulation of hunting in a world filled with deadly monsters. Like actual hunting, successfully killing or capturing a monster requires the use of strategy, skill and provided items. *Monster Hunter* sold poorly in Europe and the Americas due to being given no advertising; however, it was a huge hit in its native land, Japan."
* [*my body — a Wunderkammer*](https://collection.eliterature.org/1/works/jackson__my_body_a_wunderkammer.html): "a semi-autobiographical hypertext combining text and image in an exploration of the body"
* [*Myst*](https://ggapp.io/games/rfYKVo/myst): "a mystical journey through worlds that changed the concept of an adventure game"
* [*Neo Cab*](https://ggapp.io/games/EKNxUT/neo-cab): "*Neo Cab* is an emotional survival game about staying human in a world disrupted by automation. You play as Lina, the last human driver on the neon-drenched streets of Los Ojos. When your friend and only lifeline mysteriously vanishes, you'll need to use wits and empathy to survive. Choose your passengers— and your words— wisely. If you can balance your cash, star rating and emotional health, you might just keep your job long enough to find her." 
Neon White 
* [*Never Alone / Kisima Ingitchuna*](https://ggapp.io/games/yHLwsb/never-alone): "*Never Alone* (*Kisima Ingitchuna*) is an atmospheric puzzle platformer and the first game to be developed in collaboration with the Iñupiat, an Alaska Native people, drawn from a traditional story that has been shared across the generations. Nearly 40 Alaska Native elders, storytellers and community members contributed to the development of the game. It features two characters, and it can be played in single-player mode or play cooperatively with a friend as you trek through frozen tundra, leap across treacherous ice floes, swim through underwater caverns and face enemies both strange and familiar. You'll explore awe-inspiring environments, perform heroic deeds and meet legendary characters from Iñupiaq stories — all narrated by a master storyteller in the spoken Iñupiaq language."
* [*NieR: Automata*](https://ggapp.io/games/PWfXvf/nier-automata): "*NieR: Automata* tells the story of androids 2B, 9S and A2 and their battle to reclaim the machine-driven dystopia overrun by powerful machines."
* [*NORC0*](https://ggapp.io/games/J3NL5G/norco): "a post-noir point-and-click exploration of the industrial swamplands and decaying suburbs of South Louisiana"
* [*Ōkami*](https://ggapp.io/games/n8mENv/okami): "*Ōkami* is an action-adventure video game developed by Clover Studio and published by Capcom. Set in classical Japan, Ōkami combines Japanese mythology and folklore to tell the story of how the land was saved from darkness by the Shinto sun goddess, named Amaterasu, who took the form of a white wolf. Faced with the greatest challenge, to restore order and beauty to a world laid barren by evil, Amaterasu must overcome the odds against herself. *Ōkami* features innovative controls, gorgeous graphics, and a compelling adventure."
* [*Outer Wilds*](https://ggapp.io/games/TsLGzs/outer-wilds): "*Outer Wilds* is an open world mystery about a solar system trapped in an endless time loop. Welcome to the Space Program! You’re the newest recruit of Outer Wilds Ventures, a fledgling space program searching for answers in a strange, constantly evolving solar system. Mysteries of the Solar System... What lurks in the heart of the ominous Dark Bramble? Who built the alien ruins on the Moon? Can the endless time loop be stopped? Answers await you in the most dangerous reaches of space."
* [*Overboard!*](https://ggapp.io/games/2YDTx2/overboard): "GET AWAY WITH MURDER. Highly replayable detective game where you're the one whodunnit. From the creators of *80 Days* and *Heaven's Vault*."
* [*Overwatch*](https://ggapp.io/games/tJgNbq/overwatch): "In *Overwatch*, you control one of several heroes in competitive 6-person team shooting matches. Battle over objectives, take down the other team, and achieve victory. Heroes do battle in diverse locations around the world. From the technological marvel of Numbani to the manufacturing powerhouse of Volskaya, each map has a unique layout and specific win conditions that your team must meet in order to secure victory."
* [*Oxenfree*](https://ggapp.io/games/V300u2/oxenfree): "*Oxenfree* is a supernatural thriller about a group of friends who unwittingly open a ghostly rift. You are Alex, and you’ve just brought your new stepbrother Jonas to an overnight island party gone horribly wrong."
* [*Papers, Please*](https://ggapp.io/games/VifkDS/papers-please): "Congratulations. The October labor lottery is complete. Your name was pulled. For immediate placement, report to the Ministry of Admission at Grestin Border Checkpoint. An apartment will be provided for you and your family in East Grestin. Expect a Class-8 dwelling." 
* [*Phone Story*](https://ggapp.io/games/TRAMdQ/phone-story): "*Phone Story* is a game for smartphone devices that attempts to provoke a critical reflection on its own technological platform. Under the shiny surface of our electronic gadgets, behind its polished interface, hides the product of a troubling supply chain that stretches across the globe. *Phone Story* represents this process with four educational games that make the player symbolically complicit in coltan extraction in Congo, outsourced labor in China, e-waste in Pakistan, and gadget consumerism in the West."
* [*Photopia*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=ju778uv5xaswnlpl): "'Will you read me a story?''Read you a story? What fun would that be? I've got a better idea: let's tell a story together.'" 
* [*Portal*](https://ggapp.io/games/i9BAKV/portal) (any of them): "Waking up in a seemingly empty laboratory, the player is made to complete various physics-based puzzle challenges through numerous test chambers in order to test out the new Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device, without an explanation as to how, why or by whom."
* [*Prey*](https://ggapp.io/games/7jJ4nV/prey): "In *Prey*, you awaken aboard Talos I, a space station orbiting the moon in the year 2032. You are the key subject of an experiment meant to alter humanity forever – but things have gone terribly wrong. The space station has been overrun by hostile aliens and you are now being hunted."
* [*Prince of Persia*](https://ggapp.io/games/5jJVFF/prince-of-persia): "The game is set in ancient Persia. While the sultan is fighting a war in a foreign land, his vizier Jaffar, a wizard, seizes power. Jaffar's only obstacle to the throne is the Sultan's daughter (although the game never specifically mentions how). Jaffar locks her in a tower and orders her, under threat of execution, to become his wife. The game's nameless protagonist, whom the Princess loves, is thrown into the palace dungeons. The player must lead the protagonist out of the dungeons and to the palace tower, defeating Jaffar and freeing the Princess in under 60 minutes. In addition to guards, various traps and dungeons, the protagonist is further hindered by his own doppelgänger, an apparition of his own self that is conjured out of a magic mirror."
* [*Psychonauts 2*](https://ggapp.io/games/gb3rL6/psychonauts-2): "*Psychonauts 2* is a mind-bending trip through the strange worlds hiding inside our brains. Freshly-minted special agent and acrobat extraordinaire Razputin 'Raz' Aquato returns to unpack emotional baggage and expand mental horizons. Along the way he’ll help new friends, like this magical mote of light voiced (and sung) by Jack Black. Raz must use his powers to unravel dark mysteries about the Psychonauts team and his own family origins."
* [*Quadrilateral Cowboy*](https://ggapp.io/games/J3G8qk/quadrilateral-cowboy): "*Quadrilateral Cowboy* is a single-player adventure in a cyberpunk world. Tread lightly through security systems with your hacking deck and grey-market equipment. With top-of-the-line hardware like this, it means just one thing: you answer only to the highest bidder."
* [*Queers in Love at the End of the World*](https://ggapp.io/games/dSHouJ/queers-in-love-at-the-end-of-the-world): "The short, ten-second narrative faces players with how to interact with their partner before '(e)verything is wiped away.'"
* [*Radiator*](https://ggapp.io/games/AOy7kX/radiator-2) (any of them): "A free collection of three short experimental games (*Hurt Me Plenty*, *Succulent*, and *Stick Shift*) about male sexuality, punishing, eating, and driving."
* [*Red Dead Redemption*](https://ggapp.io/games/1N3hk5/red-dead-redemption) (either of them): "A modern-day Western epic, *Red Dead Redemption* takes John Marston, a relic from the fast-closing time of the gunslinger, through an open-world filled with wildlife, mini games and shootouts. Marston sets out to hunt down his old gang mates for the government, who have taken away his family, and meets many characters emblematic of the Wild West, heroism and the new civilization along his journey."
* [*Resident Evil*](https://ggapp.io/games/YMVOoY/resident-evil) (any of them): "*Resident Evil* is a survival horror classic in which a group of special forces agents, known as S.T.A.R.S, struggle against hordes of zombies and various other mutants in a mysterious mansion as they try to uncover the truth behind the terrifying infection. The game is credited for coining the phrase 'survival horror' and popularizing the genre."
* [*Restaurant Story*](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.teamlava.restaurantstory&hl=en_CA&gl=US): "Be the Chef cooking delicious foods and designing amazing restaurants in this free, casual, cooking restaurant game!"
* [*Return of the Obra Dinn*](https://ggapp.io/games/SFIxek/return-of-the-obra-dinn): "In this 1-bit first-person mystery game, a merchant ship called the Obra Dinn has appeared at a London harbor, years after being declared lost at sea. As an insurance adjuster, the player must examine the ship for clues."
* [*Sable*](https://ggapp.io/games/TXO1fG/sable): "Join Sable on her gliding, a rite of passage that will take her across vast deserts, through landscapes littered with fallen spaceships. Explore the desert at your own pace on your hoverbike, scale monumental ruins and encounter other nomads in the wilds whilst unearthing mysteries long forgotten." 
* [*Scents & Semiosis*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=h8lrej4fid9cd3u3): "A perfumer keeps a private collection of scents, each tied to a memory. Decide what they mean. *Scents & Semiosis* makes heavy use of procedural generation to create strange perfumes, full lives, and potent associations, with some alternate history around the edges. A single session is perhaps ten minutes. Its tone is mostly light or bittersweet; it's meant as an indulgence."
* [*Signs of the Sojourner*](https://ggapp.io/games/2oGYXd/signs-of-the-sojourner): "Try out the first trip! In this narrative card game about relationships and communication, navigate conversations in a colorful world reminiscent of our own. Learn and grow through the cards you choose to play. Who will you become? What will you leave behind?"
* [*The Sims*](https://ggapp.io/games/c8Tzu5/the-sims): "*The Sims* gives players the power to control the lives and relationships of a neighborhood of their own simulated people, known as "Sims." First, players give their Sims a unique appearance and personality. Players can create any imaginable character, maybe a sloppy jock, a shy bookworm, a playful child or a grumpy couch potato. Or they can recreate themselves, their friends and family. Players then move their Sims into a pre-built home or they can build their own from the ground up using the game's powerful architect mode." 
* [*The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim*](https://ggapp.io/games/ueYs2g/the-elder-scrolls-v-skyrim): "The next chapter in the highly anticipated *Elder Scrolls* saga arrives from the makers of the 2006 and 2008 Games of the Year, Bethesda Game Studios. *Skyrim* reimagines and revolutionizes the open-world fantasy epic, bringing to life a complete virtual world open for you to explore any way you choose. Play any type of character you can imagine, and do whatever you want; the legendary freedom of choice, storytelling, and adventure of *The Elder Scrolls* is realized like never before. *Skyrim*’s new game engine brings to life a complete virtual world with rolling clouds, rugged mountains, bustling cities, lush fields, and ancient dungeons. Choose from hundreds of weapons, spells, and abilities. The new character system allows you to play any way you want and define yourself through your actions. Battle ancient dragons like you’ve never seen. As Dragonborn, learn their secrets and harness their power for yourself."
* [*Spelunky*](https://ggapp.io/games/t006kT/spelunky) (any of them): "*Spelunky* is a unique platformer with randomized levels that offer a challenging new experience each time you play. Journey deep underground and explore fantastic places filled with all manner of monsters, traps, and treasure. You'll have complete freedom while you navigate the fully-destructible environments and master their many secrets."
* [*Spiritfarer*](https://ggapp.io/games/dNo2ZP/spiritfarer): "*Spiritfarer* is a cozy management game about dying. As ferrymaster to the deceased, build a boat to explore the world, care for your spirit friends, and guide them across mystical seas to finally release them into the afterlife. What will you leave behind?" 
* [*The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe*](https://ggapp.io/games/Uz8aAb/the-stanley-parable-ultra-deluxe): "*The Stanley Parable: Ultra Deluxe* is an expanded re-imagining of 2013's *The Stanley Parable*. You will play as Stanley, and you will not play as Stanley. You will make a choice, and you will become powerless. You are not here to win. *The Stanley Parable* is a game that plays you."
* [*Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic*](https://ggapp.io/games/1BOWe9/star-wars-knights-of-the-old-republic): "*Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic* is a role-playing video game developed by BioWare and published by LucasArts. The game's system is based on Wizards of the Coast's *Star Wars Roleplaying Game*, which is based on the d20 role-playing game system derived from the Third Edition Dungeons & Dragons (D&D) rules. Players choose from three basic character classes at the beginning of the game, and later choose from three Jedi sub-classes. Beyond class, a character has 'skills' stats, tiered 'feats,' and later on, tiered Force powers, similar to magic spells in fantasy games. Feats and Force powers are unlocked every few level-ups, while the player is given skill points to distribute among their skills every level. The game is a part of the Star Wars Legends Universe."
* [*Stardew Valley*](https://ggapp.io/games/Yjl0wb/stardew-valley): "You've inherited your grandfather's old farm plot in Stardew Valley. Armed with hand-me-down tools and a few coins, you set out to begin your new life. Can you learn to live off the land and turn these overgrown fields into a thriving home?"
* [*Street Fighter*](https://ggapp.io/games/OUhjXC/street-fighter) (any of them): "*Street Fighter*, designed by Takashi Nishiyama and Hiroshi Matsumoto, made its debut in the arcades in 1987. In this game, the player takes control of martial artist Ryu, who competes in a worldwide martial arts tournament, spanning five countries and ten opponents. A second player can join in at any time and take control of Ryu's rival, Ken. The player can perform three types of punch and kick attacks, each varying in speed and strength, and three special attacks: the Hadouken, Shoryuken, and Tatsumaki Senpuukyaku. These are performed by executing special button combinations with the controls."
* [*Submerged*](https://ggapp.io/games/hlUjAI/submerged): "*Submerged* is a third-person combat-free game in which you explore a mysterious flooded city and discover the beauty of desolation in vast outdoor environments. You take on the role of Miku, a young girl who has brought her wounded brother to the city in their small fishing boat."
* [*Subsurface Circular*](https://ggapp.io/games/BYYz5C/subsurface-circular): "When the truth is buried, go underground. Step into this new take on text-based adventure from the award-winning team behind *Thomas Was Alone* and *Volume*. A short story that hands you the fate of the world above, as a detective looking for answers on the Subsurface Circular."
* [*Sunless Sea*](https://ggapp.io/games/qGJSX9/sunless-sea): "LOSE YOUR MIND. EAT YOUR CREW. DIE. Take the helm of your steamship and set sail for the unknown! *Sunless Sea* is a game of discovery, loneliness and frequent death, set in the award-winning Victorian Gothic universe of Fallen London."
* [*Sunset*](https://ggapp.io/games/hxbmvq/sunset): "It's 1972 and a military coup has rocked Anchuria. You, Angela Burnes, are trapped in the metropolitan capital of San Bavón. Your paradise has turned into a warzone. You take up a job as a housekeeper. Every week, an hour before sunset, you clean the swanky bachelor pad of the wealthy Gabriel Ortega."
* [*Super Hexagon*](https://ggapp.io/games/Sn99y5/super-hexagon): "*Super Hexagon* is a minimal action game by Terry Cavanagh, with music by Chipzel."
* [*Super Mario Bros.*](https://ggapp.io/games/vvNjgv/super-mario-bros) (any of them): "*Super Mario Bros.* is the first ever platform adventure for the Mario Brothers. It shifted the gameplay away from its single-screen arcade predecessor, *Mario Bros.*, and instead featured side-scrolling platformer levels. While not the first game of the Mario franchise, *Super Mario Bros.* is the most iconic, and introduced various series staples, from power-ups, to classic enemies like Little Goombas, to the basic premise of rescuing Princess Toadstool from King Koopa."
* [*Superluminal Vagrant Twin*](https://ggapp.io/games/QIOmOA/superluminal-vagrant-twin): "Ply the spaceways. Make five million credits. Buy back your twin. A space sim in the form of interactive fiction, written by C.E.J. Pacian."
* [*Tacoma*](https://ggapp.io/games/o3wrj4/tacoma): "*Tacoma* is a sci-fi narrative adventure set aboard a high-tech space station in the year 2088. Explore every detail of how the station's crew lived and worked, finding the clues that add up to a gripping story of trust, fear, and resolve in the face of disaster. From the creators of *Gone Home*." 
* [*Take*](https://ggapp.io/games/eISE4X/take): "You are battle-weary. Your armor is scanty and your countenance is loathsome; you tire of the swords flicking at your neck. But you have a duty. There is nothing you can't take."
* [*That Dragon, Cancer*](https://ggapp.io/games/uQhvrc/that-dragon-cancer): "An immersive, narrative videogame that retells Joel Green’s 4-year fight against cancer through about two hours of poetic, imaginative gameplay that explores themes of faith, hope and love."
* [*13 Sentinels: Aegis Rim*](https://ggapp.io/games/qV6jpW/13-sentinels-aegis-rim): "A departure from the studio's traditional fantasy style, the game takes place in a modern setting punctuated with giant mechs. Although the world may be bleak, Vanillaware’s signature artistic shine and gorgeous aesthetics will bring the characters and story of *13 Sentinels* to life."
* [*Thunderbird Strike*](https://ggapp.io/games/0vXcZU/thunderbird-strike): "In the 2D sidescroller *Thunderbird Strike*, fly from the Tar Sands to the Great Lakes as a thunderbird protecting Turtle Island with searing lightning against the snake that threatens to swallow the lands and waters whole."
* [*To the Moon*](https://ggapp.io/games/RHWdaX/to-the-moon): "Join Dr. Rosalene and Dr. Watts as they enter a patient named Johnny's mind on his death bed to grant his final request. Watch, interact, and change the past as Johnny's life unfolds before you and takes you on a magical journey inside one's head that asks the greatest question of all: 'What if...?'' If you had the chance to relive your life, would you change things? Would you try to achieve some grand goal? Could you find love? Fame? Fortune? Or would you realize that sometimes the past is meant to stay the same. Join Dr. Rosalene and Watts on their journey and travel *To The Moon*."
* [*Tomb Raider*](https://ggapp.io/games/0nz4uJ/tomb-raider) (any of them): "Adventurer Lara Croft has been hired to recover the pieces of an ancient artifact known as the Scion. With her fearless acrobatic style she runs, jumps, swims and climbs her way towards the truth of its origin and powers - leaving only a trail of empty tombs and gun-cartridges in her wake."
* [*Transistor*](https://ggapp.io/games/5OO5XA/transistor): "*Transistor* is a sci-fi themed action RPG that invites players to wield an extraordinary weapon of unknown origin as they fight through a stunning futuristic city. The game seamlessly integrates thoughtful strategic planning into a fast-paced action experience, melding responsive gameplay and rich atmospheric storytelling. During the course of the adventure, players will piece together the Transistor's mysteries as they pursue its former owners." 
* [*Umurangi Generation*](https://ggapp.io/games/7C9B1t/umurangi-generation): "*Umurangi Generation* is a first person photography game in the dystopian future. Set in Tauranga, Aotearoa off the back of an impending crisis, you are a courier for the Tauranga Express. Throughout the game you will unlock a variety of lenses and equipment. Each photo you take is judged on its colour, content, and composition. Taking a photo will net you a cash score which will go towards your final payout. Complete photo bounties any way you like. Once you've completed these bounties deliver the parcel to finish the level. New equipment for your camera is unlocked by finding film canisters, recreating postcards, fulfilling timed deliveries, and finding a way to fit all of your friends in one photo."
* [*Undertale*](https://ggapp.io/games/7gEiVh/undertale): "*Undertale* is set in the Underground, a realm where monsters were banished after war broke out with humans. ... Most of them are fought, with the human choosing whether to kill them or to spare and even befriend the monster. During their travels, the human learns the cause of the war between humans and monsters."
* [*Unpacking*](https://ggapp.io/games/JBHfck/unpacking): "*Unpacking* is a zen puzzle game about the familiar experience of pulling possessions out of boxes and fitting them into a new home. Part 'item Tetris,' part home decoration, you are invited to create a satisfying living space while learning clues about the life you’re unpacking."
* [*Untitled Goose Game*](https://ggapp.io/games/jaNsNu/untitled-goose-game): "It's a lovely morning in the village and you are a horrible goose. *Untitled Goose Game* is a slapstick-stealth-sandbox, where you are a goose let loose on an unsuspecting village. Make your way around town, from peoples' back gardens to the high street shops to the village green, setting up pranks, stealing hats, honking a lot, and generally ruining everyone's day."
* [*The Vanishing of Ethan Carter*](https://ggapp.io/games/IyWE3U/the-vanishing-of-ethan-carter): "*The Vanishing of Ethan Carter* is a first-person story-driven mystery."
* [*Videogames for Humans*](https://www.instarbooks.com/books/videogames-for-humans.html) (any game in the collection): "Behind the fluorescent veil of modern big-business video games, a quiet revolution is happening, and it’s centered on a tool called Twine. Taken up by nontraditional game authors to describe distinctly nontraditional subjects—from struggles with depression, explorations of queer identity, and analyses of the world of modern sex and dating to visions of breeding crustacean horses in a dystopian future—the Twine movement to date has created space for those who have previously been voiceless within games culture to tell their own stories, as well as to invent new visions outside of traditional channels of commerce. *Videogames for Humans,* curated and introduced by Twine author and games theorist merritt k, puts Twine authors, literary writers, and games critics into conversation with one another's work, reacting to, elaborating on, and being affected by the same. The result is an unprecedented kind of book about video games, one that will jump-start the discussions that will define the games culture of tomorrow."
* [*Virginia*](https://ggapp.io/games/1Bkfxc/virginia): "*VIRGINIA* is a first person interactive drama. It is the story of a recently graduated FBI agent and her partner as they seek to uncover the mystery surrounding the disappearance of a young boy. In the birthplace of America nothing is quite what it seems."
* [*The Walking Dead*](https://ggapp.io/games/Mu3b8P/the-walking-dead-season-one) (any of them): "*The Walking Dead: Season One* (also known as *The Walking Dead: The Game*) is an episodic interactive drama graphic adventure video game developed and published by Telltale Games. Based on Robert Kirkman's *The Walking Dead* comic book series, the game consists of five episodes, released between April and November 2012. The game is the first of *The Walking Dead* video game series published by Telltale."
* [*What Remains of Edith Finch*](https://ggapp.io/games/l1nTHp/what-remains-of-edith-finch): "*What Remains of Edith Finch* is a collection of strange tales about a family in Washington state. As Edith, you'll explore the colossal Finch house, searching for stories as she explores her family history and tries to figure out why she's the last one in her family left alive." 
* [*When Rivers Were Trails*](https://ggapp.io/games/rPf0EJ/when-rivers-were-trails): "*When Rivers Were Trails* is a point-and-click adventure game about the impact of colonization on Indigenous communities in the 1890s."
* [*Wildermyth*](https://ggapp.io/games/FJf9IE/wildermyth): "*Wildermyth* is a character-driven, procedurally-generated tactical RPG. Lead a band of unique heroes as they grow from a reluctant farmers into legendary fighters. Battle threats lurking in the Yondering Lands and discover secrets that the land has to offer."
* [*The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt*](https://ggapp.io/games/cLh06S/the-witcher-3-wild-hunt): "As war rages on throughout the Northern Realms, you take on the greatest contract of your life — tracking down the Child of Prophecy, a living weapon that can alter the shape of the world."
* [*With Those We Love Alive*](https://ggapp.io/games/PyQFIP/with-those-we-love-alive): "A short Twine adventure that blends digital and physical interaction. In the game the Player takes the role of the slave of a monstrous queen in a fantasy world, until an old friend appears seemingly out of nowhere."
* [*The Wizard Sniffer*](https://ifdb.org/viewgame?id=uq18rw9gt8j58da): "You were recently acquired by the brave Ser Leonhart and his squire to sniff out the evil shapeshifting wizard. Unfortunately, you are not a wizard sniffer (if such a thing even exists). As far as you can tell, you are an ordinary pig. A comedy of errors experienced through a parser with a limited verb set. Also, puzzles."
* [*World of Warcraft*](https://ggapp.io/games/mqh5gW/world-of-warcraft) (any of it): "*World of Warcraft* is a massively multiplayer online roleplaying game (MMORPG) set in the Warcraft universe. Players assume the roles of Warcraft heroes as they explore, adventure, and quest across a vast world. Being 'Massively Multiplayer,' *World of Warcraft* allows thousands of players to interact within the same world. Whether adventuring together or fighting against each other in epic battles, players will form friendships, forge alliances, and compete with enemies for power and glory."  
* [*Yakuza 0*](https://ggapp.io/games/LqZ4xo/yakuza-0): "*Yakuza 0* continues the legendary SEGA Japanese series about two men and their life in crime. Fight like hell through Tokyo to Osaka as junior yakuza Kiryu and Goro Majima. Take a front row seat to 1980s life in Japan. An immersive experience battling your way through the streets. Climb to the top of the yakuza's chain. Become rich. Gain power." 
* [*Year Walk*](https://ggapp.io/games/AAMC2F/year-walk): "In the old days man tried to catch a glimpse of the future in the strangest of ways. Experience the ancient Swedish phenomena of year walking through a different kind of first person adventure that blurs the line between two and three dimensions, as well as reality and the supernatural."
* [*Zork*](https://ggapp.io/games/SYF49u/zork-i) (any of them): "*Zork* is one of the earliest interactive fiction computer games, with roots drawn from the original genre game, *Colossal Cave Adventure*. The first version of *Zork* was written in 1977–1979 using the MDL programming language on a DEC PDP-10 computer."
